herbivores have powerfully muscled hind
legs that give them superlative
acceleration invaluable if you're caught
unawares
pants again numbers bring safety the
North American pronghorn is the second
fastest sprinter on the planet but over
long distances it's the world champion
but all large herbivores have to be able
to run fast they run on tiptoe so that
they cover more ground with each stride
muscles are bunched at the top of the
legs so that the limbs are streamlined
Sungrazers flaunt their athleticism as
if to say I'm fit so save your energy
and pick on someone weaker
cheetah's maybe the fastest sprinters
but gazelles are better at dodging and
drinking slimline legs however trip only
to easily and having eyes on the side of
your head so that you can't see directly
forward can be catastrophic
even so herbivores managed to
outmaneuver their enemies more often
than you might suppose
kicking hooves and thrusting horns are
formidable weapons this mother is going
to defend her form come what may a
buffalo has incautiously strayed away
from its herd it surely can have no
defense against the group lives
but the rest of the herd have noticed
faced with the threat of hundreds of
tons of masked anger the lioness turns
tail the male lion however seems
unwilling to give up
Buffalo with their heavy armament have
won this particular battle but the war
on the plains is a never-ending one